# Spherical Triangular Tessellation (STT) Generator

## Program Propose

The spherical triangular tessellation is a kind of partition of the spherical surface composed by only triangular cells. This program could generate the STT based on an icosahedron. The STT generated by the program could be refined around given points, lines, polygons and circles on the spherical surface. The exterior and interior outlines of the STT could also be customized.

## Installation

You need to compile the executable file `stt` using the `makefile`. Please change the variable `CC` in the `makefile` to the compiler you use.

If you don't have `gcc` installed.
+ For Mac OS users, install `gcc` using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) by

```bash
brew install gcc
```

+ For Linux users, install `gcc` by

```bash
apt-get install gcc
```

After the `gcc` is installed. Use `make` the compile the program. Then move or symlink the executable file `stt` to any directory included in your $PATH, for instance, `/usr/local/bin`.

## Usage

```bash
Usage: stt -d<minimal-depth>/<maximal-depth> [-r'WGS84'|'Earth'|'Moon'|<equator-radius>/<pole-radius>|<equator_radius>,<flat-rate>] [-o<orient-longitude>/<orient-latitude>] [-m<output-msh-filename>] [-v<output-vert-loc-filename>] [-t<output-tri-cen-filename>] [-n<output-tri-neg-filename>] [-p<control-point-filename>] [-l<control-line-filename>] [-g<control-poly-filename>] [-c<control-circle-filename>] [-s<outline-shape-filename>] [-k<hole-shape-filename>] [-h]
```

## Options

+ __-d__: Minimal and maximal depths of the quad-tree structures used to construct the STT.
+ __-r__: Coordinate reference system of the output files.
+ __-o__: Orientation of the top vertex of the base icosahedron.
+ __-m__: Output filename of the Gmsh(.msh) file.
+ __-v__: Output filename of the vertices' locations.
+ __-t__: Output filename of the triangles' center locations.
+ __-n__: Output filename of the triangles' neighbors.
+ __-p__: 
+ __-l__:
+ __-g__:
+ __-c__:
+ __-s__:
+ __-k__:
+ __-h__:

## Input File Formats

### Point format

### Line format

### Circle format 

## Examples