---
layout: post
title: grav2d-cube
subtitle: "Forward modeling of gravitational field of cubes under the Cartesian coordinates."
date: 2018-11-11 12:02:00 -0800
category: program
tags: [Forward modeling,Gravity]
---

* content
{:toc}



## Compile

For Mac OS users, install gcc using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) by

```bash
brew install gcc
```

For Linux users, install gcc by

```bash
apt-get install gcc
```

then go the directory of the program and `make` the program. Then export the directory to your $PATH.

## Usage

```bash
grav2d-cube -r<x-start>/<x-step>/<x-end>/<y-start>/<y-step>/<y-end>/<elevation>|<filename> -c<x-cen>/<y-cen>/<z-cen>/<dx>/<dy>/<dz>/<density>|<filename> -tgravity|gx|gy|gz -h > out-file
```

## Options

+ __-r__: Initializing the observation points from parameters or a file. If the parameters are used, you need to specify starting and ending positions of *x* and *y* coordinates of the observation points, along with their intervals *dx* and *dy*. The interval could be a positive or negative number depending on whether the starting coordinate is bigger than the ending coordinate or not. The program could also read observation's positions from a file, in which each line of the file contains the *x*, *y* and *z* coordinates of a observation point. Any line that starts with '#' will be ignored so that you can annotate the file as you want. Note that the program uses the right-hand system for the observation points, which means the *x* and *y* directions correspond to the easting and northing directions, respectively. 
+ __-c__: Initializing geometric and physical properties of a cube from parameters or cubes from a file. The geometric properties of a cube is represented by its center location *\<x-cen\>/\<y-cen\>/\<z-cen\>* and spatial extensions *\<dx\>/\<dy\>/\<dz\>*. the cube's density is appended last to the parameter string. A file that contains parameter strings is needed if you want to add multiple cubes. Each line of the file describes one cube. Also, any line that starts with '#' will be ignored. Note that the program uses the reversed right-hand system for locating the cubes, in which case the *z* direction is pointing downward, and the *x* and *y* directions correspond to the northing and easting directions, respectively. 
+ __-t__: Choose the component of the forward calculation, which is *gravity* for gravity and *gx, gy* and *gz* gravity gradient in *x, y* and *z* directions, respectively.
+ __out-file__: Output file of the forward calculated gravitational data. The program will use the standard output by default. However, you can redirect the output to a file by using the '>' symbol. Each line of output file consists of *x y z* positions of the observation point and the forward calculation gravitational data appended at the last.
+ __-h__: Show help information.

## Examples

+ Forward calculating a cube's gravity data. The center of the cube is located at (500 m,500 m,200 m) and the size of the cube are 200 m, 100 m and 100 m in *x*, *y* and *z* directions. The density of the cube is 1.0 $$g/cm^3$$. Observation points are from 0 ~ 1000 m with 10 m spacing in both *x* and *y* directions. Moreover, the elevation of observations equals 10 m.

```bash
grav2d-cube -r 0/10/1000/0/10/1000/10 -c 500/500/200/200/100/100/1.0 -t gravity > one-cube-grav.txt
```

+ Read the cube's parameters and observation's positions from files. And forward calculating the gravity gradient data.

```bash
grav2d-cube -r obs-position.txt -c cube-para.txt > cubes-gravity.txt
```
